# Speech Perception in Noise task (SPiN)

This is the home for a continous languaging processing study. You'll find here and explanation of the study, a preprint to some previous behavioral findings, along with work-in-progress code for data acquisition and analyses. 

The main focus of this study is to implement a speech perception paradigm that elicits cognitive effort from a listener. 
Speech is rarely perceived in quiet environments and the strength of background noise may vary signficantly from situation to situation. Speech masking noises are everywhere and may range from dogs barking to horns honking. Environmental sounds like rain, cars, home appliances, etc. often mask speech at a low, signal level which greatly affects bottom-up processing of speech, these are often referred to as 'energetic maskers'. Likewise, informational masking noise e.g., side conversations, impede top-down languaging processing, particularly affecting perception and cognition. Background noises result in listeners implementing strategies that allocate available mental resources in order to perceive the speech intelligibly, typically attentional resources. With the right amount of motivation, individuals may be able to effortly overcome these demands to perform the best they can in these social interactions.

In our preliminary behavioral study (Oakeson et al., 2024; https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2024.10.02.616312v1), we found that the performance in a 2-speaker masker condition within a speech perception in noise task was able to be predicted by the individual's self-rated measure of social reward with a focus on prosociality. This means that listeners that rate prosocial social interactions as more rewarding are performing with better hearing thresholds when in noisy listening conditions.

The SPiN task is 21 minutes long MEG task and split into two 10.5 minute runs. This passive listening paradigm begins by listening to an audiobook by itself (https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/72/japanese-fairy-tales/4840/the-happy-hunter-and-the-skillful-fisher/). Throughout the task, there is a centered fixation point in which participants are directed to fixate upon as concurrent pupillometry is measured as well. At various time points (see trigger data .csv for more precious timings), speech-masking noise in the form of either 1 competing speaker, 2 competing speakers, or steady-state speech-shaped noise are overlayed on the target audiobook. The other speakers are different audiobooks with different speakers. These speech maskers are fixed at specific signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs) which were determined by a previous behavioral study--the SNRs are -12dB, -3dB, and -3dB respectively. Prior to the experiment, the participants are told they will be asked three questions related to themes and events in the target story after each run. This is to encourage motivation for the participant to pay attention only to the target story.

MEG and pupillometry data is analyzed seperately using MNE-Python. This code is being prepared and updated throughout the data collection process.
